damage/etc sent in packets
each kind of packet has certain expected values
some moves send multiple packets of damage (like a multi-hit move)

traits listen for types of packets
items/abilities can listen for types of packets

composite damage? damage gets reduced by all applicable reductions

ability packet:
  accuracy
  damage types
  damage
  source
  target
  crit

damage packet:
  accuracy
  evasion
  damage types
  damage
  boost (plus)
  block (minus)
  armor (armor+)
  weakness (armor-)
  amplification (+percent)
  reduction (-percent)
  source
  target
  crit (percent)
  conditions

conditions:
  stun like Darkest Dungeon? (incl. stunlock resistance)
  burn like Pokemon?
  magic damage DoT (blight?)
  physical damage DoT (bleed?)
  death's door? sometimes?
    on death's door, monster gets swapped back?
    on faint, chance to survive?
    small chance to immediately die, but wounds may require healing items to be used immediately?
    special healing items for wounds?
    items that allow being KOed instead of dying?

    death's door chance on one-turn kill? incapacitated?

catching:
  only consume on success? consume after fight ends?
  only allow catching when a single target is left?
  different capture devices (?) for different scenarios, or use similar but scaling in quality (pokeball/greatball/ultraball)?
    make it like pokemon, with both? let player build a capture device at cost?










hp - str
mana - int
armor - agi
magResist - n/a
amp - int
damage - primary stat

speed - agi
attackSpeed - agi
castSpeed - int
itemSpeed - str

attunement - primary stat (STAB)

stun resist - str
bleed resist - str
blight resist - agi
burn resist - agi
slow resist - agi
confuse resist - int
paralysis resist - int

stun: can't perform action next turn (allow switch? stay stunned 1 turn if brought back out?)
bleed/blight†: damage over time for X turns
burn: composite damage over time, reduced physical damage for X turns
slow*: always act last (first slowed will act before most recent slowed)
confuse*: chance to hurt self and deal reduced damage (magic doesn't hurt self? bigger chance to fail?) if using move for X turns
paralysis: 1 move will fail in next X turns, chance each turn to act last
frenzy*: chance to attack wrong target (never ally) for X turns, disables support abilities

soaked*: reduces effectiveness of fire moves for X turns; electric moves will short-circuit; water moves buffed
singed*: removed on use of water move; 

* remove on swap
† triggers after swap

type interactions are more monster-specific
  fire types may resist water, not be weak to, etc (for example)
  special passive status effects caused by typed moves will modify other typed moves (like soaked, singed)


types:
fire
water
grass/leaf..?
ice
physical
spell



Essence values
Gain like Pokemon EVs
Can use an Essence Shifter to extract EVs from monsters and apply them to other monsters
Weak essences are gained through combat, can be extracted
Strong essences are added using an Essence Shifter, cannot be extracted but can be destroyed
Essence values go into individual stats (hp, mana, armor, etc) instead of attributes (Agi, Int, Str)


Berry bushes


# of monster ability/item slots can be increased with skill points?
Evolve using skill points? Maybe requires a few?
Can apply skill points mid-battle (learned moves can replace old ones or fill empty slots)
